Goal

The goal of this project is to apply the material introduced in this class on a real-world data
set and create a formal report to represent all your work. You are going to find a real dataset
of interest by yourself and do a thorough multivariate analysis. The dataset should not come
from a textbook or homework assignment. The number of observations should not be small
(it should contain at least several hundred observations). You may search online for resources.
Websites like Kaggle or world bank data may be a helpful resource for real datasets. Please
make sure your dataset contains more than 5 variables (most of them are continuous). You
must bring the dataset to get approval from me and submit to Sakai before Thursday,
April 16.

Instructions
The following are some instructions about the preparation of the report.

1. Write a summary and description of the dataset you use. You may use summary statistics,
descriptive statistics, figures, etc.
2. Clearly state the research questions and your analysis plan of the project.
3. State at least two possible multivariate analysis methods you want to use in the analysis,
at least one of the methods should be in classification (LDA or Cluster). You may also use
other multivariate analysis methods that are not covered in the book to do your analysis.
4. State whether your data satisfy the assumptions, how you fit the models, how you use
the output from these models to answer your research questions (include numerical summaries, graphics, and interpretations).
5. Compare the models or further discussion of your models, provide suggestions to other
people if they want to use similar methods in their analysis.
6. Address any problems you meet while analyzing the dataset.
7. Discuss further questions raised by your study (that might be investigated in future
research or analysis).

Report
You should write up your analysis and report in the form of a short technical/research
article, preferably in the format of a high-quality statistics or mathematics journal.
• Your main part of the report should be 4-7 pages, your writeup should briefly describe
the points listed in the previous section.
• An abstract highlighting the results from your analysis should be included before the
body of the work.
• Graphs, figures and tables can be helpful to understand your findings. An appendix
should include your code and/or computer output. (extra figures/tables and appendix
are not included in the 4-7 page limit)
• Interesting running results can be included in the body of the report.
• A bibliography is necessary for any references you make

Presentation
You are expected to give a 12 min talk (10 min present + 2 min question) at the scheduled
final exam day: 1-3 pm Tuesday, April 28. Your final presentations must be accompanied by
well-written, informative slides.

Grading
You are expected to work alone on this project. You are free to use textbooks, online resources
and I am here to help and encourage you to meet/discuss with me the project. This project
report essentially counts 20% and the final presentation counts 10% to your final letter grade.
Your grade for the report will be determined by the following:
20% Description of the data, a summary of the possible research questions
40% Appropriate and correct analysis procedures
20% Complexity of your decisions, suggestions, extensions
10% Well-written (including spelling, grammar and punctuation) and attractive report meeting
the guidelines set above
10% R-code is attached as an appendix

Due Date
The written report of the project is due Sunday, April 26 by 11:55pm, submitted to the
Sakai. Feel free to turn it in early. No late work is accepted!!! The slides must be submitted
to Sakai before 12:30pm Tuesday April 28.
